
Functional versus non functional social choice
          functional : not dependent on ordering of input (functional statistics)
          in some cases tie breaking is random (mechanical or digital-  which is an hard open area of research, and usually not in the scope of resolution of operating the election) (not an issue of the method, i.e. implemeting a voting method and verifying are different functions)
          ranking methods 
          Note that there are modules for which repeatability is not possible to guarantee. Those modules are not part of the models of our specification - they are relevant surrounding information. human intervention should be noted when it is part of the surrounding context or specified in legislation. These are part of the context rather than VMWG models. As these module are part of the social choice function, our models may itemize and point to the legislative algorithmic definition.
          Basic variants Options: Note that we are concerned with BOTH vote selection data set and cast vote record
                    there is debate opinion on when and how a ballot should be a Cast Vote Record
                          with a drv both are the same.
                          note that we dont adjudicate methods for determining whether a ballot is a cast vote record
                                mathematical function will differ in some cases e.g. based upon what rules are used in part of the record processing, E.g.: missing choices rules, etc. (numerous cases) - > these would cause configurations in use fo the algoirthm to be necessary
          determining whether a ballot conains valid votes and if so what those are
                    under votes
                    over votes 
                    manual adjudication of what happens in the case of ambiguous marks?
                    
         mgt wrap-up note: Will we address variants of straight party voting
